= WebRI

* home: http://proutils.github.com/webri
* code: http://github.com/proutils/webri
* talk: http://googlegroups/group/proutils


== DESCRIPTION

WebRI is a dynamic web-based ri-browser which can provided
ri documentation dynamically, by running a webrick server.

Presently WebRI utilizes ri's own html output mode to produce
web pages.


== RELEASE NOTES

Please see the HISTORY file.


== USAGE SYNOPSIS

WebRI can be used as a dynamic ri browser, either for a single project
or for a collection of libraries. Indeed, the WebRI server can be used
to browse the entire installed object system --eveything documented in
your central install locations. To do the later, simply execute
+webri+ with no arguments and open a web-browser to the local port designated
(see below).

  $ webri

To browse per-project ri documentation, you will first need to locate
the project's ri files, either by locating them in your system installation
or by generating them for a project, which can be done using rdoc, eg.

  $ rdoc --ri --op ri lib/

Sometimes a package will include a convenience script for generating these.
Try running `rake -T`, or look for a `script/` executable that does
the job. Usually the generated documentation is placed in either `ri/` or `doc/ri/`.
I will use ri/ in the following example, adjust your directory as needed.

With ri files located you can view them by supplying the direcotry, e.g.

  $ webri ri/

You will see a Webrick server start up, informing you of the port being used.

  [2008-03-28 12:11:16] INFO  WEBrick 1.3.1
  [2008-03-28 12:11:16] INFO  ruby 1.8.6 (2007-06-07) [x86_64-linux]
  [2008-03-28 12:11:21] INFO  WEBrick::HTTPServer#start: pid=8870 port=8888

In this example we see the port is the default 8888. Simply open your browser and
navigate to:

  http://localhost:8888/

On the left side of the screen you will see a navigation tree, and the right
side contans an infromation panel.

NOTE: Becuase +ri+ itself isn't very fast, if you use WebRI against the
entire set of installed Ruby libraries it can take a few seconds to load up.

To generate a static website for the RI docs use the `--output/-o` option
to tell webri where they files should be saved. You can also use the `-1`
option to generate all documentation on single web page.

Use `--help` for information on additonal options.


== INSTALLATION

Installing via RubyGems is per the usual:

  $ sudo gem install webri


== COPYING

WebRI Copyright (c) 2009 Thomas Sawyer

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

